" .ideamvimrc - Configuration for IdeaVim

" --- Leader Keys ---
" Sets the leader key to '.'
let mapleader = '.'
" Sets the local leader key to '.' (often the same as the global leader)
let maplocalleader = '.'

" --- Mouse Support ---
" Enables mouse support in all modes (Normal, Visual, Insert)
set mouse=a

" --- Yank/Paste to Clipboard ---
" Uses the system clipboard for all yank, delete, and put operations.
" This allows seamless copy-pasting between Vim and other applications.
set clipboard=unnamedplus

" --- No Wrap ---
" Disables line wrapping. Long lines will extend beyond the screen width.
set nowrapon

" --- Keep Cursor Centered ---
" Keeps 8 lines visible above and below the cursor when scrolling.
set scrolloff=8
" Keeps 5 columns visible to the left and right of the cursor when scrolling horizontally.
set sidescrolloff=5

" --- Line Numbers ---
" Displays line numbers.
set number
" Displays relative line numbers (useful for vertical movements).
set relativenumber

" --- Show Matching Bracket ---
" Highlights matching brackets when the cursor is over one.
set showmatch

" --- Indentation ---
" Sets the number of spaces for a tab character.
set tabstop=4
" Sets the number of spaces for indentation operations (like >> and <<).
set softtabstop=4
" Sets the number of spaces for auto-indentation.
set shiftwidth=4
" Enables smart indentation, which automatically adjusts indentation based on code structure.
set smartindent
" Enables auto-indentation, which carries over indentation from the previous line.
set autoindent

" --- Search (Ignore case unless uppercase letter is present) ---
" Ignores case when searching.
set ignorecase
" Overrides 'ignorecase' if the search pattern contains an uppercase letter.
set smartcase

" --- Search (Highlight and Incrementally Search) ---
" Highlights all matches for the current search.
set hlsearch
" Shows search matches as you type.
set incsearch

" --- Window Splitting ---
" New vertical splits will appear on the right.
set splitright
" New horizontal splits will appear below.
set splitbelow

" --- Keybinds ---
" Maps 'jj' in Insert mode to <Esc> (Escape) for easier mode switching.
" 'noremap' ensures it's a non-recursive mapping.
" 'silent' prevents the command from being echoed.
inoremap <silent> jj <Esc>
